# <div align="center">Climate Claims Assignment</div>
## <div align="center">Zacharia Burrafato</div>
### <div align="center">ISCI3A12</div>
### <div align="center">October 24th, 2021</div>

### Article Evaluation
**Benson, 2019. Researchers Say Renewable Energy Mandates Cause Large Electricity Price Increases. [online] Watts Up With That? Available at: < https://wattsupwiththat.com/2019/05/02/researchers-say-renewable-energy-mandates-cause-large-electricity-price-increases/> [Accessed 23 Oct. 2021].**

This paper aims to produce the claim that renewable energy mandates and renewable energy sources in general will cause large increases in the price of electricity and are therefore not viable. The paper presents a variety of statistics referencing other articles indicating that as the percentage of energy demands being met by renewable sources increase, the more expensive energy prices will become. The article also dictates that states that have enacted renewable energy mandates (REMs) have energy costs of 152.2 billion dollars and is therefore much greater than the average. The article also states that the increased costs of implementing renewable energy sources are approximately three times higher than the social cost of carbon. Next, the article discusses that many renewable energy sources generate additional costs since they only act as intermittent energy sources as the sun and wind are only present for a fraction of each day. Furthermore, the article states that the efficiency ratings of both solar and wind power are less than 35% each. The article continues by providing additional examples of states with increased energy costs due to the implementation of REMs. Furthermore, it was estimated that moving the entire country of the United States to renewable energy sources would cost 5.7 trillion dollars and states that a country with completely renewable energy production is near impossible. Lastly, the article concludes by stating that due to the lack of efficiency, high production costs and high electricity costs for the public, renewable energy sources are not effective modes of energy production and that their use can harm low-income families. 

The topic of renewable energy sources is extremely relevant in the present day as creating renewable sources of energy for present and future use would not only allow us to have an indefinite, sustainable energy source but will also aid in the decrease of carbon emissions and is very beneficial for the environment. Regarding the article in question, while stated in the article that it's claims are backed up by reliable sources, the facts stated in the paper are generally false.

Renewable energy sources have been found to mitigate greenhouse gas release on a significant scale while also providing a very large quantity of jobs worldwide (Owusu and Asumadu-Sarkodie, 2016). This increase in employment leads to improved economy and by extension, health, education, and environmental safety (Owusu and Asumadu-Sarkodie, 2016). Complete renewable energy movements are further estimated to make up 94% of greenhouse gas emission reductions (Gielen et al., 2019). The article states that the cost involved with transitioning towards renewable energy sources is too great to be viable however, studies show that due to the overall increase in economic stability generated by renewable energy sources, it would be economically favourable to make this transition (Gielen et al., 2019). Furthermore, the costs associated with implementing renewable sources such as solar and wind have decreased significantly over the years (Gielen et al., 2019). From 2010 to 2017, the costs involved with photovoltaics and onshore wind energy implementation have decreased by 73% and 23% respectively (Gielen et al., 2019). These prices are below that of conventional fossil fuel generation and in certain cases, lower than the operating cost of an existing fossil fuel-based power plant (Gielen et al., 2019). While the upfront investment into transitioning to renewable energy sources is great, the investment is well worth it in the end as it not only provides humanity with an indefinite sustainable energy source but boosts the worldwide economy through employment opportunities and decreased operation costs (Gielen et al., 2019). 

### Works Cited
Gielen, D., Boshell, F., Saygin, D., Bazilian, M.D., Wagner, N. and Gorini, R., 2019. The role of renewable energy in the global energy transformation. Energy Strategy Reviews, 24, pp.38–50. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esr.2019.01.006.

Owusu, P.A. and Asumadu-Sarkodie, S., 2016. A review of renewable energy sources, sustainability issues and climate change mitigation. Cogent Engineering, 3(1), p.1167990. https://doi.org/10.1080/23311916.2016.1167990.
